In this video, we are going to tackle
adding in Project Lombok. We just saw
that used here in the recipe project.
We are going to go ahead and get
things cooking with the Spring Pet
Clinic project, so we're going to go ahead
and add Project Lombok to that so I'll
assign this to myself and get it in
progress. Let's toggle over to
IntelliJ. The first thing we want to
do is go in and add in the Project
Lombok dependency so I'm going to add this
up here, like so, and I'm copying this out
of a project that had Project Lombok
brought in using Spring Initializer.
The Spring guys are setting this to an
optional dependency and this impacts how
things are brought in to Mavens
inheritance of different POMs. I'm
not quite sure why they're setting it at
optional. I'm going to be honest to you. I looked
at it and I don't think it's needed but
I'm going to kind of roll with that because
that's the way it's defaulting in. So
this sets a Project Lombok for our
project as far as a dependency for a
maven dependency. And then, the next thing
I need to do is come in and take a look
at project settings. I want to come
in here and
come under here look at Build Execution
Deployment, Compiler and Java compiler
Annotation Processors. I want to make
sure that annotation processing is
enabled. This is important to
make sure that is enabled because if you
don't enable that, Project Lombok it's
not going to be compiled properly within
the IDE. So it happens okay for Maven but
it will cause you headaches inside the
IDE. I had to imply that
and say okay. So that brings in the
dependency for our project. Actually,
it's only a pet clinic web.
It should also be
brought in to this guy here. You can
see that I already have Project Lombok
so I probably don't need that.
I grabbed the wrong POM by mistake. I'm
going to try to comment that out and make
sure that everything happens okay.
Remember the gotchas we ran into some
problems with how the equals are getting
set up as far as the references to and
from so I'm going to go ahead and
continue with that and let's come in and
say...
I'm going to say rather than Data, I'm going to
do Setter
Getter, NoArgsConstructor
and let's do
set up the Builder pattern as well. So
it's a number of annotations, but that
does give us some pretty cool
functionality here. I'm going to copy
these over to the other entities.
In here, we can say at...
and now I can start getting rid of these.
Allow Project Lombok to take care of the
implementations of those. Let's see here.
Private.
That's where my getters and
setters start so I can get rid of them.
In these intermediate classes, I
found that it's usually good habit to go
in and add getters and setters to those.
So those will be made available
because Lombok does some funny things
with inheritance. It doesn't always
behave like you'd like it to. We are
going to go ahead and set those like so.
That looks good.
We're wiping out all these getters
and setters because now we're adding
that in. We're also picking up the
Builder pattern so that's a nice
thing that we can do here. We get rid of that, like so.
Same thing for
this guy
and then
I'm just double-checking my work
and then finally Visit. We can get rid of
these.
I think we are happy there so now let's
come down and probably the best place to
check like this is going to be a bootstrap
class because that's what we're working
with everything and you can see IntelliJ is
currently happy. So let's go ahead and
start this to make sure everything's still
happy using Project Lombok.
Everything seems to be okay.
We are starting up normally, which is
good. I'm going to stop this. And just
out of being paranoid, let's come over
here.
I'm going to do a clean.
That's going to clean out everything.
This is just in case things are still
hanging around. Kind of a little bit of
experience here, but I'm also going to go
in and package this, which will force a
test and compile, so we'll get everything
compiled via Maven.
You can see they were downloading a little bit
there some stuff. It looks like
everything's compiling. We are getting a
context starting up, so that is one of
our tests that's running to bring up the
Spring context and everything is still
happy. Just a double check.
These were a lot of changes that we are
now moving over to the annotations of
Project Lombok, so a lot of functionality
that we picked up there. All that is
happy. I'm happy with how that is running,
so let's take a look at in the Owner.
You can see, here I click on
that. You can see, I get rid of a lot of
the getters and setters and at the same
time I brought in some functionality so
I had now had the Builder pattern.
Let's come over here to data loader.
I'm just going to show you this. I'm not
going to save it. I could come over to
this and say Owner.builder.address.
Rather than doing all these setter based
stuff, we could actually do a builder
pattern, more of a functional
pattern, so that's a nice little
addition that we'd got through using the
Project Lombok Builder Annotation. So
hopefully, we'll be able to grab that
functionality at a future point in the
course but I want to show you guys how
to do use that builder pattern and the
biggest trick to using the Builder
pattern is to add in a AllArgs
Constructor, so you want a NoArgsConstructor than an AllArgsConstructor.
That allows Project Lombock to go
ahead and bring in the Builder pattern
for you so it works out pretty nicely
for you. I'm going to double check
this Owner. So that's a
Person. I just remembered one thing.
You see the first name isn't coming
through so I'm going to show you a trick
on Owner because we are extending out
the Person. In Person, I'm setting up a
constructor on the person
and I want to make sure that we are now if
I can get a constructor for that.
So now it's asking me for the person as
well
that I want.
Now that we have the Owner...
Set pets. We're still not getting the
first name, last name.
Let me pause this and look at it a
little bit closer. Getting these
extensions working with the Builder
pattern can be a little tricky. I'm going to
pause this and be right back.
All right jumped ahead a little bit and
what I had to do is this a little more
complex out object model. You can see
here that now I have an Owner and I
annotated at the constructor level to
generate the Builder. So the Builder is
going to generate everything out as far
as the id, firstName, lastName. So these
first three properties are coming from
the person class, so I'd go into the
person class, create a constructor for
that, and then also, for the base entity, I
need to set up a constructor for that. So
I now have a NoArgs and AllArgs
Constructor. So that should do everything.
I am going to restart this, just in case.
Make sure that I didn't break anything
inadvertently. This here's where
I was going in. So I can see now I can do
the id that's off the map superclass
and also firstName. So now, I can build
out the full object graph with the Owner
so I'm going to get rid of that.
Let's go ahead and I make sure that this
will compile.
I'm going to go ahead and start it. Make
sure everything's still happy.
That is good. So just to recap there,
going back to the Owner because I have
an Owner that extends out a Person, which
extends out the base entity, I had to set
up chain of constructors on that, and
then, I have all the properties including
the inherited class so id comes from
from the base entity. firstName, last
Name comes from the Person, Person object.
So now, Person has a constructor that
takes an id, firstName and the Person
calls the constructor of the base entity
and passing an id. So now, I get the
desired functionality of the Builder
pattern. I don't know if you've ever
manually written to build a pattern. I
love using builder patterns because
they're so convenient. But if you
are writing them on an POJO, it is tedious.
So hopefully you guys find some benefit.
I know it's a little confusing. Didn't
quite go as smooth as I'd like, but
sometimes that happens. I'm trying
to show you live coding here, and this is
is a little tricky to implement. But as
long as you remember, you want to get all
the properties. When we get into
inheritance, you can setup that Builder
pattern to go against rather
complex object model and give yourself
some nice code to work with as your
project develops. So that was number 51.
I'm going to go ahead and close that.
Adding Project Lombok.
One of my favorite projects.
Closes out number 51.
I'm going to do a quick push and that will be up
in GitHub.